 # Steam Budget Wishlist
 #### Video Demo:  <URL HERE>
 #### Description:

    A python program that accepts urls from the online video game distribution platform: Steam, then returns a list of games sorted by it's length to price ratio. As the name implies, the main function of this program is to make a video game wishlist, detailing each game's price, main length, and completion length (the time it takes to 100% compete the game).
    This program may help users make an educated decision in purchasing games, by providing a list which sorts and shows each game's length to price ratio, which may be a consideration for people who enjoy video games and are working on a budget.

    Several files exist in the folder. 'requirements.txt' shows the packages that are used and need to be preinstalled in running the program, a premade .csv file named 'budgetwishlist.csv', that shows a sample output for the program. The main program is titled 'project.py', and it's unit test file is titled 'test_project.py'.

##### Rundown of the program:

    The program will start by showing a menu, in which users can select the program's operations by typing in commands through the terminal.
    Inputing 'new' will prompt the user for a file name, which has to end with '.csv'. Otherwise, the program will reprompt the user.
    After inputting accordingly, the program will then ask for the url of the game to be added to the list. The validity of the link is determined through a regular expression and invalid links will result in a reprompt.
    (Example of valid link: https://store.steampowered.com/app/22380/Fallout_New_Vegas/)
    Inputting a valid and existing game link, will prompt the user, as to make sure the game is what the user meant. Inputting yes will then add the game's data to a preexisting list named 'newlist' in the program. Each valid link inputted will append the list, until the user inputs Ctrl+D, which will stop prompting for links and create / overwrite a .csv file containing all the games inputed before.
    *If the game's length isn't listed in Howlongtobeat.com, it will return 0.
    *If the game is not yet unreleased or if the game is free, it will reprompt. (The idea of the project is to sort games to be bought in a wishlist)

    The .csv file can be viewed from within the program, which acomplishes the task with a similar technique. The program will prompt the user for how the list would want to be sorted and displayed, either by the main length to price ratio or the completionist length to price ratio. The user can also display the unsorted list as a whole. The program will then append and sort game data from a file to the newlist accordingly, and print newlist using the tabulate function.

    The final feature of the program is that it can edit previousely created .csv files. The program has capabilities to add and remove games from a file, and also to update the prices of each game from the file. Similarly, the program will append the contents of a .csv file to newlist, before editing that list by  way adding, removing, or updating the data. The list will then be returned and overwrite the previous file. The program will then return to the main menu, and reprovide the same options.

##### Design Decisions:

    In creating the program, there were several design decisions that were to be made, mainly regarding how the program will be able to write, edit and overwrite existing lists. But also how the program would treat the sorting and displaying of the final list. In addressing the first issue, my final solution was to make a list called newlist that the program could access globally, where the program would append data from a file it read, execute any operations on said list before returning and overwriting the .csv file. With this method, the program can offer flexibility in how the user were to edit the list. For example, the user can add and or remove a game to their wishlist, and without rebooting the program able to view the list. To accomplish this and prevent any errors with the list, each time the program returns to the menu, newlist.clear() is called by the program, therefore preventing any scenarios where the program reads a list from prior operations.
    The second design issue was regarding how the program would treat the sorting and viewing of the wishlist. It would be reasonable to assume that a prgoram designed to help with budgeting will sort the it's wishlist, from the most valued to the least valued, as it can ease the user in reading it. In making the program, I also want to provide data about a game's main and completionist length, as different people play games completely, with some of them being 'completionists' and enjoy playing a game until they experience everything the game has to offer. However both this design quirks clash, as now the program has two types of length to price ratio to sort. While usually a game with lengthier main content also has a lengthy side content, in the off chance that the positions of a game by it's main and completionist length is different, problems may arise. My final in tackling this issue was to give the user the option on how they would like to view the list, either sorted and only displaying the main length and main price ratio, or vice versa. An option to view the unsorted plain wishlist is also offered for users who would like to view their games as a whole. With this design, I can also set the program to display only main, only completionist, or only both, therefore enhancing the user's focus and viewing experience.

    In making the program, other issues also exist, mainly because the program fetches input from to API, that being Steam and Howlongtobeat.com The main issue was that game IDs in steam differ from that in howlongtobeat.com, luckily the Howlongtobeat python API has a feature to search by name and find the most matching result. To implement this, I had to make sure that the name that were to be passed to the API was readable and didn't contain any special symbols that may disrupt howlongtobeat's search engine (example: copyright symbol, trademark symbol, games with - in their name). A final issue that exist and is still unfixed is regarding the price currency of the game. In using the program, Steam's API may sometimes randomly return different currencies to each game. A way to bypass this program I discovered was to copy and return links from google rather than opening the steam page and copy-pasting the link in the search bar. This will return consistent currencies, however it is still a flaw in the program which I hope to fix when I understand more about steam's API and IP reading system in the future. The final issue I had, while not directly linked to the program was in implementing unit tests. As several functions in my program will prompt input, I had to use mock in unittesting my program, which I have not had a strong grasp at. I have successfully unit test several functions with it, but for some of the latter and more complex functions, I had to sort of manually run the function and check if it's output and the actual function's is the same. This is still very unefficient and may cause potential problems, being another thing I hope to fix once I learn more about the capabilities and methods of mock.

##### Closing Remarks:

    I am still very excited to learn more about python, or programming in general, and hope to expand my knowledge in creating and improving programs. I am very thankful for CS50 for providing such a wonderful course to programming in python.
    Let me know if there are any questions, suggestions, and comments about my project.

    This is Steam Budget Wishlist and this was CS50P.